Certain gases in the atmosphere trap heat and warm the Earth
Life on Earth 'exhales' gas that warms up the atmosphere
The tilt of the Earth changes the amount of solar energy the Earth receives
The Sun is putting out more radiant energy over time
Humans have altered a natural process and exaggerated changes that might normally occur over millions of years.
Once released into the atmosphere, greenhouse gases remain potent for many years, making it difficult to reverse the process.
Abrupt changes to the climate system may have unintended outcomes that may pose challenges for societies, like more extreme weather, spread of diseases, a decline in marine life, or an alteration of ocean circulation patterns.
All of the above
Industry
Transportation
Landfills
Agriculture
11 percent
49 percent
62 percent
90 percent
Cooler by 0.1 degree C (0.2 degree F)
The temperature has gone up and down, but remains overall the same
Warmer by 0.1 degree C (0.2 degree F)
Warmer by more than 1 degree C (2.1 degrees F)
Today's climate warming is about as fast as the temperature swings that have happened in Earth's past.
Past changes in the climate have been faster than the changes we're seeing today.
Today, the Earth's climate is changing much faster than it has changed in the past.
Today, the Earth's climate is changing much slower than it has changed in the past.
Slight warming
Strong warming
No change
Slight cooling
This is the highest it's ever been
CO2 was at least this high during the warm periods between the ice ages
CO2 has not been this high for almost one million years.
The last time CO2 was this high was 3 million years ago.
Examining organisms in marine sediments can tell us what the temperature was like in the past.
Pollen in lake beds shows what plant species have lived there during different times. Different plant populations are associated with different types of climates.
Glacial moraines show when and where previous episodes of glaciation occurred.
All of the above
34%
59%
76%
97% or more
China
USA
Russia
European Union
CO2 washes out of the atmosphere seasonally.
CO2 remains in the atmosphere for 5-10 years.
CO2 remains in the atmosphere for up to 50 years.
CO2 remains in the atmosphere for up to 200 years, or more.
Earth's average temperature would continue to rise.
Temperatures would continue to warm, then begin to cool down in 100 years or more.
Temperatures would fluctuate, but stay the same on average.
Temperatures would stop increasing once greenhouse gas concentrations stopped increasing.
Melting sea ice
Melting glaciers and ice sheets
Rivers accelerating
Rocks and soil washing into the sea
CO2 dissolved in ocean water
Sunscreen in the water
Ocean pollution
Warm water
CO2 dissolved in ocean water
Ocean pollution
Warm water
Sediment stirred up by extreme storms
Household and industrial recycling
Large-scale solar farms
Cleaning up ocean pollution
Planting trees
We need to stop burning fossil fuels by 2100.
We need to stop burning fossil fuels by 2040.
Fossil fuels don't matter, the Sun will cool and so will the Earth.
It's already too late to stay below the 2-degree threshold. We should have stopped burning fossil fuels in the early 2000s.
